# Analyze Video
Azure Video Indexer allows you to extract data from videos.

## Azure Video Indexer Capabilities
Azure Video Indexer can be used for:
- Facial recognition
- Optical Character Recognition
- Speech transcription
- Topics
    - Key topics discussed in the video
- Sentiment
- Labels
    - Tags identifying key objects or themes
- Content moderation
- Scene segmentation
    - Break down a video into scenes

The Video Indexer service provides a portal website that can be used to upload, view, and analyze videos.

## Extracting Custom Insights
Azure Video Indexer has predefined models that can recognize celebrities, do OCR, and transcribe spoken phrases.

You can also integrate custom models to:
- Recognize faces of people whose images you've trained the model on
- Understand specific/niche terminology that may not be common
- Identify specific brands

## Video Analyzer Widgets and APIs
The Azure Video Indexer portal allows you to perform all of the aforementioned functions, but you may also need to incorporate these capabilities into your applications. 

This can be done by:
- Azure Video Indexer widgets
    - The widgets used in the Azure Video Indexer portal to play/analyze/edit videos can also be embedded in your HTML code.
    - This is useful for sharing insights from specific videos without giving them full access to your account in the Video Indexer portal.
- Azure Video Indexer API
    - The REST API for Video Indexer can be used to get an access token that lets you consume the REST API and automate video indexing tasks.

It's also worth mentioning that ARM templates are available to create the AI Video Indexer resource based on specified parameters.

[A full list of the available APIs can be found here.](https://api-portal.videoindexer.ai/)

## Summary
Azure AI Video Indexer allows you to extract information from videos including (but not limited to):
- Transcriptions
- Recognizing faces
- Generating tags
- OCR
- Sentiment

The capabilities of AI Video indexer are available through the Video Indexer portal and API.

## Further Reading
### [Lab - Analyze Video with Video Indexer](https://microsoftlearning.github.io/mslearn-ai-vision/Instructions/Exercises/06-video-indexer.html)