# Glossary

## Azure AI Foundry
A platform for AI development on Microsoft Azure. It includesthe Azure AI Foundry portal and SDK.

Azure AI Foundry feature Hubs, which are:
- Top-level containers supporting multiple projects.
- Also manages shared resources, data, connections, and security configurations.

Within hubs are projects, which are used to organize resources and assets for a particular AI application. Projects provide these tools:
- Model catalog
    - Deploy models from several sources like Azure OpenAI and the Hugging Face model library.
- Playgrounds
    - Testing generative AI prompts
- Azure AI Services access
- Visual Studio Code
    - Containers that define a hosted development environment for testing and deploying code
- Fine-tuning for generative AI
- Prompt Flow
    - Define prompt orchestration logic for a generative AI's interaction with a model
- Assessing and improvement tools
- Management of project assets

When a hub is created from the Azure AI Foundry portal, these resources are also created:
- Multi-service AI services resource
- Key vault
- Storage account
- (Optionally) Azure AI Search resource used to index data and support grounding for generative AI prompts

## Data Science
An interdisciplinary field that focuses on the processing and analysis of data.

Data science applies statistical knowledge to discover patterns and relationships in data, and defines <em>models</em> that express those patterns.

## Machine Learning
Regarding the training and validation of <em>predictive</em> models, a data scientist prepares the data and uses it to train a model leveraging an algorithm that defines a relationship between the <em>features</em> in the data to predict values known as <em>labels</em>.

## Artificial Intelligence (AI)
Software that emulates one or more characteristics of human intelligence. Machine learning is an approach used in the development of AI, and data scientists' knowledge is often applied in creating artificial intellgence.