# Securing Azure AI Services


## Consider Authentication
By default, access to Azure AI Services is restricted by using subscription keys. Therefore, managing access to the keys is a primary concern.

### Regenerate Keys
You should regularly regenerate keys to protect against risks such as shared keys or unauthorized users accessing the keys. Keys can be regerated in the Azure portal or with the Azure CLI.

Each AI service is given two keys so you can regenerate them without  interrupting your app:

1. Make sure only one key is being used by your code (we'll call the first key "key 1").
2. Regenerate key 2.
3. Switch production code to use the new key 2.
4. Regenerate key 1.
5. Switch production code to use the new key 1.

### Utilize Azure Key Vault
The Key Vault service is used to store passwords, secrets, and keys, and access is granted to security principals (user identities) which are authenticated with Entra ID (formerly Azure AD). Assigning a security principal to an app (in which case the security principal is called a <em>service principal</em>) defines a <em>managed identity</em> for the application. 

The application will use the managed identity to access the key vault and retrieve the secret to which it has access. This minimizes risk of hard-coding values or using configuration files.

### Token-Based Authentication
Some AI services support (or even require) token-based authentication when using the REST interface.

In these cases, the subscription key is presented in the initial request to obtain an auth token, which has a 10 minute period of validity. Subsequent requests must present the token to validate the caller's authentication.

When using an SDK, the calls to obtain and present a token are handled for you.

### Microsoft Entra ID Authentication
Azure AI services support authentication with Microsoft Entra ID, and in multiple ways, including:

- Service Principals
    1. Create a custom subdomain
    2. Register an application resource
    3. Create a service principal with your application's ID
    4. Assign a role to your service principal
- Managed Identities
    - System-assigned managed identities
        - Created and linked to a specific resource
        - When the resource is deleted, the identity is deleted too
    - User-assigned managed identities
        - To be used by multiple resources
        - Exists independently of any single resource

You can assign managed identities during the creation of a resource or after it has been created. For example, you can use this Azure CLI command to assign an identity to a virtual machine that already exists:

`az vm identity assign -g <my-resource-group> -n <my-vm>`

Then in the Azure Portal, on the AI services resource you want the VM to access, you can add the <em>Cognitive Services Contributor</em> role and assign it to the managed identity you created for the virtual machine.

## Implement Network Security
Azure AI services are accessible from all networks by default, but you can choose to limit access to certain networks.

## Summary
Managing security for Azure AI Services can be tackled from a few angles, including:
- Controlling access to subscription keys
- Utilizing Key Vaults for storing keys
- Creating service principals / managed identities for apps needing access to AI services
- Regenerating keys regularly
- Allow only the necessary networks to access the AI services

## Further Reading
### [Lab - Manage Azure AI Services Security](https://microsoftlearning.github.io/mslearn-ai-services/Instructions/Exercises/02-ai-services-security.html)