# Monitor Azure AI Services
Like any software service, you must monitor Azure AI Services to track costs, view utilization metrics, and detect potential issues.

## Monitor Costs
Before deploying any services, you may want to estimate the costs by using the [Azure Pricing Calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/calculator/).

After entering the specs you plan to use, the calculator will let you download your estimate in Excel format.

### View Costs
Viewing costs for Azure AI Services is like any other Azure resource: in the Azure Portal, select your subscription and in the Cost Analysis tab you'll see the total spend for that subscription. 

To view only the Azure AI Services costs, add a filter to show only Azure AI Services.

## Alerts
Azure allows for the creation of alerts based on resource metrics or events. These alerts can be configured so the correct team is notified when the alert arises.

### Alert Rules
To add an alert rule for Azure AI Services, select the resource and in the Alerts tab, add a new alert rule.

You must provide the following information:
- Scope
    - The resource for which you want to receive alerts
- Condition
    - When the alert will trigger
    - Triggers are based on one of two types:
        - Activity Log
        - Metric
- Optional Actions
    - Sending an email, running Azure Logic Apps, etc.
- Alert Rule Details
    - Alert rule name, resource group, etc.

## Metrics
Azure resource metrics are collected at regular intervals so you can monitor the service's utilization, performance, and health.

The exact metrics collected depends on the resource, but for Azure AI Services, Azure Monitor collects metrics for endpoint requests, data submitted and returned, errors, and more.

## Diagnostic Logging
Diagnostic logging allows you to capture operational data for Azure AI Services, which can then be used to troubleshoot problems.

### Resources for Diagnostic Log Storage
The log data must be stored at a particular location.

You may choose to use Azure Event Hubs, so you can forward your data to a custom telemetry solution or connect directly to a third party.

Most common is to use one (or both) of these resources:
- Azure Log Analytics
- Azure Storage