# Azure AI Content Safety
User-generated content is being posted at an unprecendented scale.

The need for improving online content safety has four main catalysts:
- An increase in harmful content
- Regulatory pressure
- Transparency
- Complex (multimodal) content

Azure AI Content Safety is an Azure AI resource for detecting and managing harmful content in both user-generated and AI-generated material. It also replaces the deprecated Azure Content Moderator.

## What is AI Content Safety?
AI Content Safety is an Azure resource with a set of content moderating capabilities that can be integrated into your applications.

### Trusting User-Generated Content
As social interaction becomes more prevalent in digital space, genuine user-generated content is seen as independent and trustworthy, and can be used as a method of marketing.

Harmful user-generated content has a damaging effect on individuals and brands that could have benefitted from positive user content.

### Content Safety in Azure AI Foundry
Azure AI Content Safety is available in [Azure AI Foundry](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-studio/what-is-ai-studio), which is a platform for exploring AI capabilities and developing AI-focused applications.

## Summary

## Further Reading
### [Lab - Use an Azure AI Services Container](https://microsoftlearning.github.io/mslearn-ai-services/Instructions/Exercises/04-use-a-container.html)
### [Azure AI Foundry](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-studio/what-is-ai-studio)