# Prepare to Develop AI Solutions on Azure

## Define Artificial Intelligence
We generally think of AI as software that exhibits one or more of these human-like capabilities:
- Visual Perception
    - Using computer vision to accept, interpret, and process input from images and video streams.
- Text Analysis and Conversation
    - The ability to use <em>natural language processing (NLP)</em> to not only "read", but also generate realistic responses and extract semantic meaning from inputs.
- Speech
    - The ability to recognize speech as input and synthesize spoken output.
    - Combining speech with NLP enables <em>conversational AI</em>, in which humans can interact with AI agents/bots just like they would with a human.
- Decision Making
    - The ability to use past experience to learn and take appropriate actions.
    - An example is recognizing anomalies in sensor readings and taking automated action based upon those readings.

## Considerations for AI Engineers
In the modern day, it's relatively easy for software engineers to incorporate AI into their applications because modern high-power compute and large volumes of data have led to widely available prepackaged AI solutions.

## Model Training and Inferencing
Many AI systems rely on predictive models that must be <em>trained</em> on sample data.

The training process determines the relationship between the <em>features</em> (values that are present in the data) and <em>labels</em> (the value the model is being trained to predict).

After the model is trained, you can submit new data (with features included) and predict the most likely label. The process of using the model to make predictions is known as <em>inferencing</em>.

## Probability and Confidence Scores
No predictive model is infallible.

Predictions made by ML models are based on probability, and so predictions reflect statistical likelihood, not absolute truth.

Predictions often come with <em>confidence scores</em> which reflect the probability upon which the prediction is made.

## Ethics in AI
The nature of AI is such that its use has a significant effect on the users and society as a whole.

Whether it's biased training data, energy consumption, poor working conditions, or a myriad of other issues involved in creating AI, <strong>it is of utmost importance that, for humanity now and in the future, we practice responsible development and use of artificial intelligence</strong>.

## Considerations for Responsible AI
- Fairness
    - If a bank uses a machine learning model for loan approval, the model should make it's approval prediction without incorporating any bias based on gender, ethnicity, or other factors that result in an unfair advantage / disadvantage to a group of applicants.
- Reliability
    - Any AI-based system, especially those that can have substantial impact on human life, needs to be rigorously tested and put through deployment management processes to ensure they work as expected before release.
    - Additionally, take into account the probabilistic nature of ML models and apply appropriate thresholds when evaluating confidence scores.
- Privacy and Security
    - ML models are trained on large volumes of data which may contain personal details which must be kept private.
    - Even after models are trained and the system is in production, new data must also be subject to thorough privacy and security checks.
- Inclusiveness
    - AI systems should be developed with input from as diverse a group of people as possible.
    - AI should empower everyone.
- Transparency
    - Users should be made fully aware of the capabilities, limitations, and purpose of the system they're using.
    - You should make users aware of the factors that affect the accuracy of its predictions, the significance of confidence scores, and user data retention.
- Accountability
    - The developers are responsible for the systems they create, and so they should operate with a framework that ensures positive ethical and legal compliance.

## Capabilities of Azure Machine Learning
Microsoft provides the Azure Machine Learning service, which allows us to train and publish models.

Azure Machine Learning is also capable of:
- Automated machine learning
- Azure Machine Learning Designer
    - No-code development of ML solutions
- Data & compute management
    - Data storage and compute to run experiments at scale
- Pipelines
    - Orchestrate model training, deployments and management tasks

Azure Machine Learning can be used throughout the entire ML lifecycle to ingest/prepare data and train and deploy models.

## Capabilities of AI Services
Azure AI Services should be thought of as several individual services that can be used as building blocks for AI applications.

Azure AI Services have pre-built AI capabilities such as natural language processing, knowledge mining/document intelligence, computer vision, decision support, and generative AI.

## Capabilities of Azure OpenAI Service
Generative AI models, which are relatively new and rapdily developing, are dependent upon large language models (LLMs), which are developed from the transformer architecture of machine learning.

Azure OpenAI Service is used to deploy and fine-tune models created by OpenAI.

## Capabilities of Azure AI Search
Azure AI Search allows you to ingest and index data, and then search the index to find, filter, and sort extracted information.

Besides basic text-based indexing, you can also define enrichment pipelines that use AI skills to enhance the index with insights derived from source data.

For example, you can use computer vision and NLP to generate descriptions of images or extract text from scanned documents.

Insights extracted from enrichment pipelines can be kept in a knowledge store for further analysis.

## Summary
Artificial Intelligence can be thought of as software emulating certain human characteristics. As such, it is important to maintain ethical and legal integrity when developing AI programs.

Azure's machine learning tools aim to provide a complete, end-to-end service for training, managing, and deploying ML projects. You can leverage DevOps pipelines, no-code training, and data storage and compute to achieve your goals.

Microsoft provides several tools to develop AI applications, most of which reside under the umbrella of Azure AI Services.

These services allow for the use of common AI functions such as knowledge mining/document intelligence, computer vision, decision support, and generative AI.

## Further Reading
### [Transformer Architecture](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transformer_(deep_learning_architecture))