# Create and Consume Azure AI Services

To use any of the Azure AI services, you need to create the appropriate resources to define an endpoint where the sevice will be consumed. You also need to provide access keys for authentication.

## Provisioning Options for Azure Resources
Most Azure AI services let you choose between the following provisioning options:

- Multi-Service Resource
    - You can provision an AI Services resource that supports multiple different AI services.
    - This single resource can let you use the Azure AI Language, Vision, Speech, and other Azure AI services.
    - A single set of credentials can consume multiple services at a single endpoint and use a single point of billing for all services too.

- Single-Service Resource
    - Each AI service can be provisioned individually by creating the specific resources needed.
        - For example, you can provision the Azure AI Vision service alone.
    - This approach is good for using sepearate endpoints for each service, or for managing access to each service separately.
        - Billing is also separate for each service.
    - Single-service resources generally offer a free tier with usage restrictions.

- Training and Prediction Resources
    - Some offer (or require) separate resources for training and prediction.
    - This means you can manage billing for model training separately from billing for model consumption.
    - In most cases this allows you to use service-specific resources to train a model, while using a generic Azure AI Services resource to make the model available for inferencing.

## Identify Endpoints and Keys
When you provision an Azure AI Services resource in your subscription, you are defining an endpoint for the services to be consumed by an application.

For an app to consume the service, you must provide the following information:
- Endpoint URI
    - HTTP address where the REST interface can be accessed
- Subscription Key
    - Endpoint access is available only to the subscription keys
        - Upon creating the Azure AI Services resource, two keys are created
        - The keys can be regenerated
    - Client apps must provide a valid key to consume the service
- Resource Location
    - Most SDKs use the endpoint URI, but some may require the location

## Rest API
Using REST intefaces with an HTTP endpoint (like with Azure AI Services) means that any programming language or tool that can send/receieve JSON over HTTP can be used to consume Azure AI services.

## Using an SDK
Instead of using Rest APIs to interact with Azure AI Services, you can use Software Development Kits (SDKs), which are libraries native to the programming language you're using.

SDKs abstract the REST API for most AI services. Not all AI services have an SDK available, but for most services there are SDKs for:
- C# / .NET Core
- Python
- JavaScript (Node.js)
- Go
- Java

## Summary
When you're ready to use one of the Azure AI services, you can pick between the Rest API or an SDK. In your code, you'll need to provide valid endpoint URIs and subscription keys (both of which can be found in the AI service resource you deploy).

From there, it's simply a matter of securely providing the keys and URIs  to your code and calling the necessary functions to consume the AI service.

## Further Reading
### [Lab - Use Azure AI Services](https://microsoftlearning.github.io/mslearn-ai-services/Instructions/Exercises/01-use-azure-ai-services.html)