# Azure AI Services in Containers
Containers allow you to host Azure AI Services on-premises or in Azure.

If you have sensitive data in an on-prem SQL server, you can run AI Serivces in a container on that same network as the SQL server. This could also increase performance by reducing the latency between your data and the AI service.

## Understanding Containers
Deploying software requires an environment that provides the necessary hardware, operating system, and runtime components on which the software depends.

Azure AI Services exist in the cloud (Azure), so the necessary components are hosted in a Microsoft datacenter.

However, some Azure AI Services can be deployed to <em>containers</em>, which encapsulates the necessary runtime components, and from there the container must be deployed to a host which provides the OS and hardware requirements.

### Container Benefits
Containers hold the application and its necessary runtime components, and the OS and hardware requirements are abstracted.

This results in benefits such as:
- Portability
    - With the OS and hardware abstracted, the application can be used across different hosts because it already has all its necessary runtime pieces.
- Isolation
    - One single container <em>host</em>, which provides the OS and hardware, can support multiple isolated containers, each potentially having its own runtime configuration.

A container is encapsulated in a <em>container image</em> which defines the software and configuration it must support. Images are usually stored in a central registry, like <em>Docker Hub</em>, or you can have your own registry.

### Deployment
To use a container, you typically pull an image from the registry and deploy it to a container host. The host can be in the cloud, on a private network, or on your local computer.

Here are some popular hosts:
- A Docker server
- Azure Container Instances
- Azure Kubernetes Cluster

## Azure AI Services and Containers
You can find container images for Azure AI Services in the Microsoft Container Registry.

To deploy and use an Azure AI Services container, make sure these items are done:
1. The container image for the specific Azure AI Service you want to use is deployed to a container host: Docker server, Azure Container Instance (ACI), or Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS).
2. Client apps submit data to the endpoint provided by the containerized service, and retrieve results as you normally would for Azure AI Services.
3. Usage metrics are periodically sent to an Azure AI Service in Azure for billing to be calculated.

Even if you choose to use containers for Azure AI Services, you still have to provision the AI Services resource in Azure for billing purposes.
- Client apps send their requests to the containerized service, which means potentially sensitive data doesn't go through the Azure AI Services endpoint in the cloud.
- The container still must be able to connect to the Azure AI Services resource in Azure to send usage metrics for billing.

### Azure AI Services Container Images
Each container provides a portion of the Azure AI Services functionality.

For example, the Azure AI Language service is split between different container images: one container has language detection, another has translation, and another has sentiment analysis. 

[Here is a complete list of container images for Azure AI Services](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/cognitive-services-container-support).

You can use the Docker <em>pull</em> command to download container images directly to your machine.

### Container Configuration
When deploying an Azure AI Services container image, you must specify three settings:
- `ApiKey`
    - The key from your deployed Azure AI Services resource
    - Used for billing
- `Billing`
    - Endpoint URI from the deployed Azure AI Services resource
- `Eula`
    - Value of <em>accept</em> to state you accept the container's license

### Consumting Containerized Azure AI Services
Once the container is deployed, apps consume the service through the containerized Azure AI Services endpoint, not the default Azure endpoint.

Make sure your app is configured with the proper endpoint, and keep in mind that you do not need to provide a subscription key to be authenticated. You can implement your own authentication solution and network security configs.

## Summary
Using containers with Azure AI Services provides a way for you to have more portability, isolation, and control over your Azure AI Services application.

Azure AI Services container images are broken up into separate containers, each encapsulating a piece of functionality. For example, one image may have the translation functionality, and another may have sentiment analysis.

Applications consume the AI Service through the containerized Azure AI Services endpoint, not the default endpoint. When using containers, you also do not need to provide a subscription key for authentication, so you can use your own authentication methods in addition to controlling network security yourself.

## Further Reading
### [Lab - Use an Azure AI Services Container](https://microsoftlearning.github.io/mslearn-ai-services/Instructions/Exercises/04-use-a-container.html)