# Fundamentals of Machine Learning

Machine learning traces its origins back to statistics and mathematical data modeling. The idea is that you can use past data to predict unknown values.

## Machine Learning as a Function

A machine learning model is, in essence, a software application holding a mathematic function which will calculate an output value based on a number of inputs.

The process of defining that mathematical function is called <strong>training</strong>.

After the function is defined, you can predict new values with a process known as <strong>inferencing</strong>.

## Steps of Training and Inferencing

1. Training data is composed of past observations.
    - These observations include the observed attributes, which are called <strong>features</strong>.
    - Also included in the data are the <strong>labels</strong>, which are the known values of what you want the model to predict.
    - Example: You want a model to predict pizza sales on a given day.
        - The features would include attributes of the day, like temperature, rainfall, month, etc.
        - The labels would be the number of pizzas sold each day.
    - In math terms, features are often given the variable name <em>x</em> and the labels are given the variable <em>y</em>.
        - There are usually multiple features, so <em>x</em> is a vector.
            - [x<sub>1</sub>, x<sub>2</sub>, x<sub>3</sub>, ...]

2. An algorithm is applied to the data to try and determine a relationship between the features and the label, expressing the relationship as a calculation that can be performed on <em>x</em> to calculate <em>y</em>.
    - The algorithm used will depend on the kind of predictive problem you're trying to solve.

3. The result of the algorithm is a model, which is the function that the algorithm calculated.
    - The function is typically named <em>f</em>.
    - <em>y</em> = <em>f</em>(<em>x</em>)
        - <em>x</em> is fed to the function (the model) to calculate <em>y</em>.

4. Now that steps 1 - 3 (the training) are done, the model can be used for inferencing.
    - The output from the model is a prediction, not an observed value.
        - To make this clear, outputs from the function/model are shown as <em>ŷ</em>, which is pronounced y-hat.

## Types of Machine Learning

- Machine Learning
    - Supervised ML
        - Regression
        - Classification
            - Binary Classification
            - Multiclass Classification
    - Unsupervised ML
        - Clustering

### Supervised Machine Learning

Supervised machine learning is the term for ML algorithms that were trained on data that has both features and known label values.

#### Regression
Regression is a form of supervised ML in which the predicted label is a numeric value.

#### Classification

Classification is a type of supervised machine learning where the label represents a category/class. The two most common types of classification scenarios are:

- Binary Classification
    - The model predicts one of two mutually exclusive outcomes.
        - Example: A model predicts if a patient is or isn't at risk for diabetes.
- Multiclass Classification
    -  The model can predict labels that fall into one of several classes.
        - Example: The model predicts the genre of a movie (action, adventure, comedy, etc.)
    - Sometimes there are multilabel classification models for when the outcome can belong to multiple classes.
        - Example: A movie might be both an action movie and a comedy.

### Unsupervised Machine Learning

Machine learning is considered unsupervised when the training data consists only of feature values; no labels are in the training data. The algorithm then tries to determine a relationship between the feautres.

#### Clustering

Clustering is a form of unsupervised machine learning in which the algorithm identifies similarities between the observed features and groups them into discrete clusters.

A good example is grouping cars into categories based on the size, shape, number of doors, etc. 

Clustering is similar to multiclass classification because they both sort observations into groups. But the difference is that multiclass classification knows the observed labels for the features, so the algorithm can determine a relationship between those features and labels.

Clustering has no known labels, so it must figure out a relationship between the similarities of the observed features.

You may combine clustering and classification. For example, you could use clustering to sort customers into groups based on their similarities, then label the output data and feed it into a classification model which can predict to what group a new customer will belong.

## Regression