# Fundamental AI Concepts

## How Machine Learning Works

Simply put, machine learning models try to figure out the relationship between data.

As an example, let's say you want to train an AI to look at a car and tell you what make/model it is.

1. You collect images of various cars.
2. You label the images with the correct make/model.
3. The data is processed using an algorithm that finds relationships between the features of cars in the pictures and what is labeled.
4. The results of this processing are encapsulated in a mathematical model.

In Azure, we have the <b>Azure Machine Learning</b> service, which lets us create and manage ML models. Azure Machine Learning Studio has various features to support model creation such as:
- Automated machine learning
    - Easier for non-experts to quickly create a model from data
- Azure Machine Learning Designer
    - GUI enabling no-code development of ML solutions
- Data metric visualization
    - Analyze experiments with visuals
- Notebooks
    - Write and run your own code in managed Jupyter Notebook servers


## Areas of AI

### Computer Vision

Computer vision is the area of AI that deals with processing visual information.

Computer vision encompasses several capabilities:
- Image classification
    - Training a model to classify an image based on contents.
    - Example: Classify pictures of cars based on car color.
- Object detection
    - Locating and classifying an object within an image.
    - Example: In an image of a traffic stop, identify buses and cyclists.
- Semantic segmentation
    - Similar to object detection, this works by classifying individual pixels according to the object to which they belong.
- Image analysis
    - Generating information about the provided image.
    - Example: If you give the model a picture of a crosswalk, it may return "A busy crosswalk in a city."
- Face detection/analysis/recognition
    - Locate and identify faces within an image.
    - Often combines classification and facial geometry analysis.
- Optical character recognition (OCR)
    - Detecting and reading text from images.

Microsoft provides Azure Vision Studio and Azure AI Vision, a development platform for computer vision solutions. Azure AI Vision has many features including:
- Image analysis
- Face detection and recognition
- OCR

### Natural Language Processing (NLP)

NLP is the area of AI for understanding written and spoken language. This includes:
- Analyzing and interpreting text in documents
- Interpreting spoken language and synthesizing responses
- Automatically translating spoken or written phrases
- Interpret commands and determine appropriate actions

Microsoft's Azure AI Language platform allows you to build NLP solutions such as:
- Understanding and analyzing text
- Training conversational language models

AI Language features can be found in Azure Language Studio.

Microsoft also has Azure AI Speech, which is a service built for recognizing and synthesizing speech, real-time translation, conversation transcribing, and more.

AI Speech tools can be found in Azure Speech Studio.

### Document Intelligence & Knowledge Mining

Document Intelligence refers to the area of AI that manages, processes, and otherwise uses a variety of data found in forms and documents.

Microsoft has Azure AI Document Intelligence, which is their platform for collecting data from scanned documents. Along with this, Document Intelligence Studio provides a hub for you to begin your Document Intelligence work, including creating custom models with your own labeled datasets.

Knowledge Mining is the extraction of information from large volumes of (usually unstructured) data to create searchable knowledge stores.

Azure AI Search is a solution for building indexes that can be used for either internal searches or searchable content on public facing internet assets.

Azure AI Search can also leverage other Azure AI services like Document Intelligence and Language to assist in extracting data.

### Generative AI

Generative AI is a set of AI functions that create original content. The user typically enters text in natural language and the AI can generate content in the form of text, art, code, and more.

Microsoft offers the Azure OpenAI Service for building generative AI solutions. There is also Azure OpenAI Studio, which lets you deploy, manage, develop, and customize various models to fit your needs.

### Challenges and Risks with AI

- Bias
    - Bias can affect the results of an AI application, such as a model discriminating by gender due to bias in the data on which it was trained.
- Errors
    - If we are to trust AI in high-stakes situations (like autonomous driving, for example), errors in the system can have fatal consequences.
- Data Security
    - Data fed to an AI could eventually make its way out into the public if improperly stored.
- Insufficient Solutions
    - AI solutions may not work for everyone, such as an automated assistant not providing audio output for visually impared users.
- User Trust
    - End users must trust a system that is complex and opaque in decision making, like making AI-assisted investment decisions.
- Responsibility
    - It is unclear who to hold responsible for decisions made/influenced by AI, such as an innocent person convicted of a crime due to facial recognition.

### Microsoft's AI Principles

Microsoft's AI development is driven by 6 principles so AI solutions are developed without unintended negative consequences.

1. Fairness
2. Reliability and safety
3. Privacy and security
4. Inclusivity
5. Transparency
6. Accountability